.Dd June 15, 2026
.Dt UMBRELLA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm umbrella
.Nd generate a minimal C/C++ include set from a directory tree
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl p Ar prefix
.Op Ar directory
.Nm
.Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility scans a directory recursively for C/C++ header files
(files ending in
.Pa .h ) ,
analyzes their internal include dependencies, and identifies a minimal subset of
headers that transitively include all other headers in the tree.
The resulting list of include directives is printed to standard output.
This output can be used to construct a single "umbrella" header for a library.
.Pp
If
.Ar directory
is not specified, the current directory is used.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width "-p prefix"
.It Fl h
Display a help message with usage information and exit.
.It Fl l
Format include directives using double quotes
.Pq Qq ""
instead of angle brackets
.Pq Qq <> .
.It Fl p Ar prefix
Prepend the specified
.Ar prefix
path to the generated include paths.
Trailing slashes in the prefix are normalized.
.El
.Sh RESOLUTION ALGORITHM
To determine the dependency graph,
.Nm
attempts to resolve each
.Li #include
path found in the scanned headers using the following sequential strategies:
.Bl -enum -compact
.It
As a path relative to the directory containing the file that has the include directive.
.It
As a path relative to the starting search directory.
.It
As a suffix match against known headers, provided the suffix uniquely identifies a single header.
.It
As a filename/basename match, provided the basename uniquely identifies a single header.
.El
.Pp
If an include target cannot be resolved through these heuristics, it is ignored
for dependency analysis.
Once reachability is determined,
.Nm
uses a greedy set-cover heuristic to choose a minimal group of entry-point
headers that cover all files.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Generate an umbrella header list for the current directory:
.Pp
.Dl $ umbrella
.Pp
Generate a list for a source directory with a custom path prefix, using quoted includes:
.Pp
.Dl $ umbrella -l -p my_project src/include
